Read about this project on my blog:
http://reganmian.net/blog/2010/04/29/personal-time-tracker-with-ruby-and-growl

Inspired by this New York Times article:
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/02/magazine/02self-measurement-t.html

This was developed by Stian Håklev, shaklev@gmail.com, using a few snippets
from other sources. I release it under Public Domain. But feel free to share
any modifications. I totally wrote this to scratch my own itch, but if you
find this, or a version of this, useful, letting me know would totally make my
day.

"INSTALLATION"

configuration and running
- first, edit the Categories list in library.rb to reflect the categories you
  care about. Personally I have chosen 0 to be "stepping away from the
  computer", this category isn't counted. 9 is reserved for the status
  overview, and I use 6 as "goofing off", ie. doing anything else on my
  computer. I also left 7 and 8 as two nameless projects, these are useful if
  I want to track something for just a day or two (right now I am using
  project 1 to track time I spend on this program). However, anything between
  1-8 is all up to you. You can also change it as many times as you want - it
  writes the entire text, not the number, to the data file, so your data won't
  be confused if you track "editing wikipedia" on 3 for two days, and then
  change 3 to tracking "contributing to KDE"
- for every time you start a new activity (and by extension, end an old one -
  there isn't a way of "just ending" an activity, you always start a new one -
  even if the new one is "resting" (0)), you run entry.rb, with the number as
  a command line argument. For example, /usr/bin/ruby entry.rb 4, which will
  change your status to category 4, write a timestamp in today's file, and pop
  up a short message about that.
- to display the current status, you run status.rb

global hotkeys

- the whole point of this program is to be extremely unobtrusive and "fit in"
  with your workflow, so of course, you don't want to have to switch to
  terminal and type "entry 4" every time you start doing something else. I
  have tied entry 0-8 to Cmd+Opt 0-8, and status to Cmd+Opt 9 (note that
  theoretically, you can tie Cmd+Alt S to status, and you can assign all the
  letters in the alphabet to differently numbered categories - I wouldn't
  recommend it though, the point is that there shouldn't be much cognitive
  load when switching tasks) 
- I found two ways of assigning global hotkeys, one is to use Automator on
  Mac, create new workflows that launch the script with different parameters
  as services, and then assign hot keys to those services in the keyboard
  control panel
- The other way is to use FreeHotKeys
  (http://www.batista.org/freehotkeys.html), a free program which I am
  currently using. To configure that program, you need to copy the files in
  the fhk-files directory to the ~/Library/Preferences/FreeHotKeys directory
  (and do a global search and replace to replace the path to the ruby script
  with the path where it resides on your system)

TODO:
- deal with midnight-switch
- script that processes timestamp files and spits out lists of activities
  (what format?)
- replace text files with sqlite?
- the ideal thing would be to find existing software/website set up to analyze
  this data, rather than to do it ourselves (can spit out in whatever format
  is desired, pretty much)

IDEA:
- use YAML dumping/loading to keep running tallies of different categories:
  today... first time run after new day, add to tallies for weekly, monthly.
  (or be able to set a benchmark time - from now on)...
  